docs: add decision on spacing in picasso (#3801)
toptal/picasso: docs/decisions/18-spacings.md

```js
// Design tokens preset
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    spacing: {
      ...
      4: '16px',
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

```css
...
/* padding: 16px */
.p-4
/* padding-top: 16px */
.pt-4
...
```

## Proposal

### Goal

Picasso has to provide full set of BASE design spacings to allow consumers to use all of them when developing Picasso-based applications. Introduced changes should not break existing usage of spacing in related components mentioned above.

### Technical implementation

Picasso provides a new object `spacing` that includes proposed spacings in a form of key-value pairs (where the key is the index of the increment and the value is a corresponding value in `rem` unit)

```ts
export const spacing = {
  0: 0,
  1: 0.25,
  ...
  10: 2.5,
  12: 3,
}
```

Exported `spacing` object with increments is reused by components with spacing properties (`top`, `right`, `bottom` and `left` properties in Container and `offset` property Dropdown)

```tsx
import { spacing } from '@toptal/picasso/utils'
...

> <Container top={spacing[6]}/>

Reviewer: this approach is also not the best one, I think. 
Developers must know or sort out spacing for their needs.

Reviewer 2: We already allow arbitary spacing with numbers, `spacing[6]` is just a shortcut to the spacing design tokens

```

The [How to use spacings](https://picasso.toptal.net/?path=/story/tutorials-how-to-use-spacings--how-to-use-spacings) tutorial is updated to contain guidelines on using a new spacing system for a particular example.

## Alternative approaches

- Provide BASE design spacings as separate constants

```ts
export const spacing0 = 0
export const spacing1 = 0.25
...
export const spacing10 = 2.5
export const spacing12 = 3
```

This approach is not consistent with the way `breakpoint` and `color` objects are exposed by Picaso (they are objects with key-value pairs, not as a separate constants)

- Provide BASE design spacings as object with string values in `rem` units

```ts
export const spacing = {
  0: `0rem`,
  1: `0.25rem`,
  ...
  10: `2.5rem`,
  12: `3rem`,
}

> ```

Author: @augustobmoura Thank you for the proposal!

After discussing with @whymancreates the plan is the following – gradually enforce usage of spacings that are mentioned in https://toptal-core.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/Base/pages/3217031216/Spacing, so the union type `SpacingType` will eventually will lose the `number` and `'small'`, `'medium'`, etc.

I'd propose to simplify the proposed structure and go with the following (list of spacings was shortened to show the idea)

```
type PicassoSpacing = 1.5 | 2.5
export const picassoSpacings: Record<number, PicassoSpacing> = {
  6: 1.5,
  10: 2.5
}
...
<Container top={{ xs: picassoSpacings[6] }}>Some text</Container>
```

This way, when `SpacingType` becomes `PicassoSpacing` only (no `number` and `'small'`, `'medium'`, etc.), the spacing will be properly typed like in the example below

<img width="892" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-16 at 22 46 25" src="https://github.com/toptal/picasso/assets/1390758/dfdd7345-7710-41f5-ba9e-b188864873e6">

I am totally for the idea of properly typing the `export const spacing`, but propose to keep it as simple as possible, what do you think?

> ```

Author: The commit with addressed change – https://github.com/toptal/picasso/pull/3801/commits/5d6303c2b650fe11f633b8fb42d048a565b23abf

## Existing approaches

- [Chakra UI](https://chakra-ui.com/docs/styled-system/theme#spacing) exports spacings in a form of key-value pairs, where `key` is the pixel number value and `value` is the `rem` units string value

```ts
const spacing = {
  space: {
    px: '1px',
    0.5: '0.125rem',
    1: '0.25rem',
    ...
  }
}
```

- [Caliber](https://github.com/toptal/caliber/blob/9a0b91110f1c82e07d30f684bb42b49e0e34f918/tailwind.preset.design-tokens.js#L2) defines spacings as key-value pairs and exports spacings in a form of CSS classes generated with TailwindCSS

```js
// Design tokens preset
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    spacing: {
      ...
      4: '16px',
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

```css
...
/* padding: 16px */
.p-4
/* padding-top: 16px */
.pt-4
...
```

## Proposal

> Picasso has to export spacing, aligned with [BASE design](https://toptal-core.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/Base/pages/3217031216/Spacing). The legacy way of specifying spacing (numbers and string constants) has to be gradually deprecated to encourage usage of BASE spacings. The [How to use spacings](https://picasso.toptal.net/?path=/story/tutorials-how-to-use-spacings--how-to-use-spacings) tutorial has to be updated to contain up-to-date guidelines on using a new spacing system.

Reviewer 3: Picasso exports spacing, aligned with [BASE design](https://toptal-core.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/Base/pages/3217031216/Spacing)
Deprecate numbers and string constants as spacing specifiers

Reviewer 3: Updating guidelines is not a part of proposal :) It does not make sense to do 2 first items and not update the guidelines.

Author: @OleksandrNechai Fixed, thanks!

Regarding the update of guidelines – I think it should be kept to have a full picture what needs to be done as part of the proposal.

Reviewer 3: 😄 okay, we also need to create tickets, merge PRs, notify teams and do many other things. Why guidelines are mentioned and everything else not?

Author: @OleksandrNechai Guidelines are really easy to miss, I was surprised that we even have them. So, even when the goal is reached after all the tickets created, there is still big chance that guidelines will be skipped.

> ### Technical implementation

Reviewer 3: Can implementation be not technical?

Author: @OleksandrNechai Fixed, thanks!

> Picasso has to provide a new `spacing` object that includes proposed spacings in a form of key-value pairs (where the key is the index of the increment and the value is a corresponding value in `rem` units)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Picasso provides a new `spacing` object that includes proposed spacings in a form of key-value pairs (where the key is the index of the increment and the value is a corresponding value in `rem` units)
```

Author: @OleksandrNechai Fixed, thanks!

```ts
// New internal type
type PicassoSpacing = 0 | 0.25 | 0.5 | 0.75 | 1 | 1.5 | 2 | 2.5 | 3

export const spacing: Record<number, PicassoSpacing> = {
  0: 0,
  1: 0.25,
  ...
  10: 2.5,
  12: 3,
}
...
// SpacingType is extended with PicassoSpacing
export type SpacingType =
  | number
  | SizeType<'xsmall' | 'small' | 'medium' | 'large' | 'xlarge'>
  | PicassoSpacing
```

Exported `spacing` object is reused by components with spacing properties (`top`, `right`, `bottom`, `left`, `gap`, and `padded` properties in Container component and `offset` property in Dropdown component).

```tsx
import { spacing } from '@toptal/picasso/utils'
...
<Container top={spacing[6]}/>
```

### Deprecation of existing approaches

> After BASE spacing is introduced, the number and string constants as spacing value have to be deprecated. The deprecation plan has two steps:

Reviewer 3: It looks more like the outline what needs to be done to migrate to this proposals. Less like a deprecation plan. Overall it is strange to have a deprecation plan in one RFC with API decision. What if one agrees with API and disagrees with the plan? 😄

Author: @OleksandrNechai Due to yesterday discussions I think it is essential to have it here, as if we do not agree on the plan, then the API proposal will be affected as well. 

Let's say, we decide on migrating spacing in one run – in this case RFC will look differently, what do you think? 🙂
